FreeIPA 4.9.14
==============

.. raw:: mediawiki

   {{ReleaseDate|2024-01-10}}

The FreeIPA team would like to announce FreeIPA 4.9.14 release!

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads. Builds
for Fedora distributions will be available from the official repository
soon.

.. _highlights_in_4.9.14:

Highlights in 4.9.14
--------------------

-  CVE-2023-5455

During community penetration testing it was found that for certain HTTP
end-points FreeIPA does not ensure CSRF protection. Due to
implementation details one cannot use this flaw for reflection of a
cookie representing already logged-in user. An attacker would always
have to go through a new authentication attempt.

The overall severity of this issue is marked as MODERATE by Red Hat
Product Security. FreeIPA team would like to thank Egor Uvarov for
discovering and reporting this issue.

---------------------------------

-  Bronze-bit (CVE-2020-17049) mitigation

The Centos 8 Stream/RHEL 8 version of FreeIPA is vulnerable to the
Bronze-bit attack (CVE-2020-17049) because MIT Kerberos 1.18 does not
implement PAC ticket signature to protect the "forwardable" flag.
However, it does implement the PAC extended KDC signature, which
protects against PAC spoofing. Based on information available in the PAC
and the "ok-to-auth-as-delegate" attribute in the IPA database, it is
possible to detect and reject requests where the "forwardable" flag was
flipped by the attacker in the evidence ticket.

In order to mitigate Bronze-Bit attack, FreeIPA 4.9.14 implements
the logic above through a post-issue TGS request check in Kerberos KDC
which is available in MIT Kerberos 1.18. FreeIPA versions compiled
against MIT Kerberos 1.20 or later already have proper Bronze-bit
mitigation.

----------------------------------

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

FreeIPA 4.9.14 is a security fix release.

Details of the bug-fixes can be seen in the list of resolved tickets
below.

Upgrading
---------

Upgrade instructions are available on
`Upgrade <https://www.freeipa.org/page/Upgrade>`__ page.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-users
mailing list
(https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/freeipa-users@lists.fedorahosted.org/)
or #freeipa channel on libera.chat.

.. _resolved_tickets:

Resolved tickets
----------------

.. _detailed_changelog_since_4.9.13:

Detailed changelog since 4.9.13
-------------------------------

.. _antonio_torres_1:

Antonio Torres (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Become IPA 4.9.14
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/deec13573d02c9e7eabd19201b7adb1e1eccd7e3>`__

.. _julien_rische_1:

Julien Rische (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  ipa-kdb: Detect and block Bronze-Bit attacks
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/5854b7381c7ee683d1437058cc7632f1034551ed>`__

.. _rob_crittenden_2:

Rob Crittenden (2)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Integration tests for verifying Referer header in the UI
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/51eb02a7758d5be8ad7ae9c402dc44dc19da93ab>`__
-  Check the HTTP Referer header on all requests
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/fc30a0f0356e632d23e9064d6770234201794781>`__
