FreeIPA 4.12.3
==============

.. raw:: mediawiki

   {{ReleaseDate|2025-01-15}}

The FreeIPA team would like to announce FreeIPA 4.12.3 release!

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads. Builds
for Fedora distributions will be available from the official repository
soon.

.. _highlights_in_4.12.3:

Highlights in 4.12.3
--------------------

-  CVE-2024-11029

When FreeIPA command line tools that run on IPA servers accept passwords
on the command line, their details could be logged into systemd journal
if the tools are using IPA API via '/proc/pid/commandline' content.

systemd journald daemon collects these details along with any call that
writes data to the systemd journal. The journal content is not
accessible outside of administrators by default but could be exposed by
forwarding the journal to external centralized log collectors.

In most cases the centralized logging protocols like rsyslog do not
forward \_CMDLINE property and thus do not see the command line
directly. However, if administrators create backup copies of the systemd
journal files, the binary data will contain all journal properties.

In order to prevent unwanted exposure of passwords in command lines,
FreeIPA tools now replace the passwords specified on the command line
with a marker 'XXXXXX'.

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _known_issues:

Known Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _bug_fixes:

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

FreeIPA 4.12.3 is a security fix release.

Details of the bug-fixes can be seen in the list of resolved tickets
below.

Upgrading
---------

Upgrade instructions are available on
`Upgrade <https://www.freeipa.org/page/Upgrade>`__ page.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-users
mailing list
(https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/freeipa-users@lists.fedorahosted.org/)
or #freeipa channel on libera.chat.

.. _resolved_tickets:

Resolved tickets
----------------

.. _detailed_changelog_since_4.12.2:

Detailed changelog since 4.12.2
-------------------------------

.. _alexander_bokovoy_2:

Alexander Bokovoy (2)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  ipa tools: remove sensitive material from the commandline
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/3b38efe75865d0696829b4f26572575a8e74ddce>`__
-  Unify use of option parsers
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/cf84a22228460957f578ac102f02516febe13f92>`__

.. _sumit_bose_1:

Sumit Bose (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  ipa-otpd: use oidc_child's --client-secret-stdin option
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/7a5a10b6bf2e3eafd4b69362ffaece39791be2a8>`__
