Why_CLA?
========

**As of Sep 15, 2010 a CLA is no longer required. This page is being
maintained for historical purposes**



Why a CLA for freeIPA
=====================

We have established clear guidelines for contributions of code,
documentation, patches, and artwork to the freeIPA project.

Every free software/open source (FOSS) project requires legal guidance
with regard to copyrights, patents, and trademarks. While some projects
require full copyright assignment to the project or a sponsoring
organization, others allow individual contributors to retain their
copyright.

We have decided to expand on the popular Fedora model and, with the
community in mind, developed a generic Contributor License Agreement
`(Download the
CLA) <http://www.freeipa.org/wiki/images/2/2b/GenericCLA.pdf>`__. The
CLA grants to Red Hat, as the sponsor of the project, a license on all
code contributed to the project. This permits Red Hat to license the
code under a FOSS license of its choice. The author of the code
continues to hold the copyright in that code, and is free to contribute
the same code to other projects and to license it under whatever terms
the author desires.

The CLA needs to be completed and sent to Red Hat before you begin
contributing code to any of the projects listed in Appendix A of the
document. At that point all your contributions, if accepted by the
project, are covered by the CLA.

Q: Why do you require me to sign a CLA ?

A: We think it is important for a central organization to manage the
various legal issues surrounding FOSS projects. With a CLA, we will be
able to react and respond to these issues on behalf of the entire
project. We are committed to the values underlying FOSS, and these
provisions are meant solely to keep the project safe from legal problems
that may arise.

Q: What if I am already contributing code to Fedora? Does this CLA still
need to be completed?

A: Yes. This CLA is modeled on the original Fedora CLA, but with some
improvements. By completing the new CLA, you can begin contributing code
to any of the projects listed in Appendix A. This doesn't affect any of
your rights in your previous contributions.

Q: Why is the license granted to Red Hat and not to the project?

A: Most FOSS projects are not organized as legal entities. In some
cases, difficult issues can arise if ownership and licensing of
copyright is not administered properly. By licensing the code to Red
Hat, the author retains ownership of the copyright. Red Hat helps by
managing the licensing of the project code under the appropriate FOSS
license.

If you want to contribute, please complete the form and send it back to
the address indicated on the form.

If you have any questions or concerns regarding the CLA, please email
the email listed in the `Download the
CLA <http://www.freeipa.org/wiki/images/2/2b/GenericCLA.pdf>`__