The FreeIPA team would like to announce FreeIPA 4.9.5 release!

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads. Builds
for Fedora distributions will be available from the official repository
soon.



Highlights in 4.9.5
-------------------



Bug fixes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

FreeIPA 4.9.5 is a stabilization release for the features delivered as a
part of 4.9.0 version series.

There are 7 bug-fixes since FreeIPA 4.9.4 release. Details of the
bug-fixes can be seen in the list of resolved tickets below.

Upgrading
---------

Upgrade instructions are available on `Upgrade <Upgrade>`__ page.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-users
mailing list
(https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/freeipa-users@lists.fedorahosted.org/)
or #freeipa channel on Freenode.



Resolved tickets
----------------

-  `#8691 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8691>`__ [Tracker] Nightly
   failure (fc33) in test_winsyncmigrate.py: ipa-replica-manage connect
   --winsync error
-  `#8702 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8702>`__
   (`rhbz#1780317 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1780317>`__)
   ipa-cert-fix: False Positive Status for cert renewal.
-  `#8756 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8756>`__ [Tracker] 389ds
   coredump in test_caless.py::TestReplicaInstall::test_wildcard_http
-  `#8868 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8868>`__ Nightly test failure
   in test_integration/test_fips.py::TestInstallFIPS
-  `#8873 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8873>`__ Missing credential
   cache can raise 500 when authenticating instead of 401
-  `#8876 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8876>`__ Nightly failure in
   test_installation.py::TestInstallWithCA1::test_install_with_bad_ldap_conf
-  `#8877 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8877>`__ Nightly test failure
   in test_nfs.py: runner VM runs out of disk space due to huge sssd log
   file



Detailed changelog since 4.9.4
------------------------------



Armando Neto (1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  ipatests: Bump PR-CI boxes
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/79e0919132adf0df764400f9c27268cbadd2578b>`__



Alexander Bokovoy (3)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Become FreeIPA 4.9.5
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/e045f118c87346bfab5b5634fd23f3054f082f7f>`__
-  get_credentials: return ValueError for missing creds
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/5238651da06547bb004de2434ae7d357422ba735>`__
   `#8873 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8873>`__
-  Back to git snapshots
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/b25f5bd9109b87916e097dd8353ea5f0dc49e398>`__



Florence Blanc-Renaud (4)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  ipa-cert-fix man page: add note about certmonger renewal
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/06a445aff10c1ab84e8784ab41b0a838e500e617>`__
   `#8702 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8702>`__
-  freeipa.spec: bump 389-ds version
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/6eb535334d33f8f375b856e3a2d0b8853b318b4d>`__
   `#8691 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8691>`__,
   `#8756 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8756>`__
-  ipatests: delete the replica before uninstallation
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/2b22450dfdc1657b463683b09b9c69816f9152d9>`__
   `#8876 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8876>`__
-  ipatests: set selinux context for fips mode
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/13b257d7a05fd255df472144712edb34604dbe06>`__
   `#8868 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8868>`__



Stanislav Levin (2)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  gssproxy: Don't refresh expired delegated credentials
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/0fd06f33b83aec19a88c594d3750bc476157ab83>`__
-  krb_utils: Simplify get_credentials
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/700be74975cad998e7dbcc4fb437e6b0bbd77305>`__
   `#8873 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8873>`__



Sergey Orlov (2)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  ipatests: disable test_nfs.py::TestNFS in nightly runs on Fedora 33
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/c9f5acc0d281f1a27471091648c36f94528c5a29>`__
   `#8877 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8877>`__
-  ipatests: temporary disable execution of test_nfs.py::TestNFS in
   nightly runs
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/6ee14f513711ae9be799cfa2bd009f13c5248932>`__
   `#8877 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8877>`__
