FreeIPA 4.12.1
==============

.. raw:: mediawiki

   {{ReleaseDate|2024-10-06}}

The FreeIPA team would like to announce FreeIPA 4.12.1 release!

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads. Builds
for Fedora distributions will be available from the official repository
soon.

.. _highlights_in_4.12.1:

Highlights in 4.12.1
--------------------

-  CVE-2024-2698

The initial implementation of MS-SFU by MIT Kerberos was missing a
condition for granting the "forwardable" flag on S4U2Self tickets.
Fixing this mistake required adding a special case for the
check_allowed_to_delegate() function: if the target service argument is
NULL, then it means the KDC is probing for general constrained
delegation rules, not actually checking a specific S4U2Proxy request.

In FreeIPA 4.11.0, the behavior of ipadb_match_acl() was modified to match
the changes from upstream MIT Kerberos 1.20. However, a mistake resulted
in this mechanism to apply in cases where the target service argument is
set AND where it is unset. This results in S4U2Proxy requests to be
accepted regardless of the fact there is a matching service delegation
rule or not.

This vulnerability does not affect default FreeIPA
deployments because the services which have delegation rules defined are
on IPA servers themselves. Services having RBCD (resource-based
constrained delegation) rules are not affected by this vulnerability
either.

-  CVE-2024-3183

A Kerberos TGS-REQ is encrypted using the client’s session key. This key
is different for each new session, which protects it from brute force
attacks. However, the ticket it contains is encrypted using the target
principal key directly. For user principals, this key is a hash of a
public per-principal randomly-generated salt and the user’s password. 

If a principal is compromised it means the attacker would be able to
retrieve tickets encrypted to any principal, all of them being encrypted
by their own key directly. By taking these tickets and salts offline,
the attacker could run brute force attacks to find character strings
able to decrypt tickets when combined to the target principal salt (i.e.
find the principal’s password).

Such attacks primarily affect user principals, not service principals because their keys are usually
generated randomly. But weak user passwords are particularly vulnerable
to such attacks, especially if they are referenced in password
dictionaries.

To mitigate this vulnerability, ticket requests to user
principals are now disallowed in FreeIPA realms by default. This will
keep attackers from obtaining data encrypted with the user key directly.

.. _bug_fixes:

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

FreeIPA 4.12.1 is a security fix release.

Details of the bug-fixes can be seen in the list of resolved tickets
below.

Upgrading
---------

Upgrade instructions are available on
`Upgrade <https://www.freeipa.org/page/Upgrade>`__ page.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-users
mailing list
(https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/freeipa-users@lists.fedorahosted.org/)
or #freeipa channel on libera.chat.

.. _resolved_tickets:

Resolved tickets
----------------

.. _detailed_changelog_since_4.12.0:

Detailed changelog since 4.12.0
-------------------------------

.. _antonio_torres_1:

Antonio Torres (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Become IPA 4.12.1
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/1664042ffa0d299c123cdb4572a16ea907c5e7f9>`__

.. _julien_rische_2:

Julien Rische (2)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  kdb: apply combinatorial logic for ticket flags
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/fdc42f70ada4c29e6e9fbbc6e821c1849ed24eee>`__
-  kdb: fix vulnerability in GCD rules handling
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/2e1132a90a1d753db95ba2c699e0b18c2fc6f256>`__
