The FreeIPA team is proud to announce FreeIPA v3.2.1.

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads. The new
version has also been built for Fedora 19 and is on its way to
updates-testing.

**Important**: please see section *Upgrading* before upgrading the
packages, a manual procedure is needed for FreeIPA servers with CA
originally installed with FreeIPA version prior to 3.1.



Highlights in 3.2.1
-------------------



New features for 3.2.1
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  dnszone-add command now interactively prompts user when it needs IP
   address of a name server instead of failing in the server phase
-  Improved debugging level of DNS dynamic update in ipa-client-install
   (see ipaclient-install.log)
-  Support multiple local domain ID ranges with RID base set



Bug fixes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Directory Server CLDAP responder now returns a result in all cases to
   avoid timeouts or freezes with Windows DC or other tools probing this
   interface.
-  User passwords may contain non-ASCII characters again
-  Missing Web UI HBAC Test tab is returned back in the UI menu
-  Manual Web UI configuration page for other browsers (e.g. Internet
   Explorer 10) is fixed
-  Removal of ID range of an active trust is no longer allowed
-  ... and many others stabilization fixes, see Detailed changelog for
   full details

Upgrading
---------



FreeIPA servers with CA installed prior to version 3.1
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`Manual upgrade procedure <Howto/Dogtag9ToDogtag10Migration>`__ is
required for FreeIPA servers installed with version prior to
`3.1 <IPAv3_310>`__.



Other FreeIPA servers and clients
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

An IPA server can be upgraded simply by installing updated rpms. The
server does not need to be shut down in advance.

Due to changes related to OCSP/CRL URI fix [1], ipa-ca.DOMAIN DNS name
is automatically converted from a set of CNAMEs to a set of A/AAAA
records pointing to FreeIPA servers with CA configured.

FreeIPA servers installed with the --selfsign option will be converted
to CA-less. See the section above titled "Dropped --selfsign option".

Please note, that the referential integrity extension requires an
extended set of indexes to be configured. RPM update for an IPA server
with a excessive number of hosts, SUDO or HBAC entries may require
several minutes to finish.

If you have multiple servers you may upgrade them one at a time. It is
expected that all servers will be upgraded in a relatively short period
(days or weeks not months). They should be able to co-exist peacefully
but new features will not be available on old servers and enrolling a
new client against an old server will result in the SSH keys not being
uploaded.

Downgrading a server once upgraded is not supported.

Upgrading from 2.2.0 and later versions is supported. Upgrading from
previous versions is not supported and has not been tested.

An enrolled client does not need the new packages installed unless you
want to re-enroll it. SSH keys for already installed clients are not
uploaded, you will have to re-enroll the client or manually upload the
keys.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-users
mailing list (http://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/freeipa-users) or
#freeipa channel on Freenode.

References
----------

[1] http://freeipa.org/page/V3/Single_OCSP_and_CRL_in_certs



Detailed Changelog since 3.2.0
------------------------------



Alexander Bokovoy (1):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Fix cldap parser to work with a single equality filter (NtVer=...)



Ana Krivokapic (3):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Prompt for nameserver IP address in dnszone-add
-  Do not display success message on failure in web UI
-  Prevent error when running IPA commands with su/sudo



Diane Trout (1):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Fix log format not a string literal.



Martin Kosek (4):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Set KRB5CCNAME so that dirsrv can work with newer krb5-server
-  Avoid exporting KRB5_KTNAME in dirsrv env
-  Remove redundant u'' character
-  Become 3.2.1



Nathaniel McCallum (6):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Add ipaUserAuthType and ipaUserAuthTypeClass
-  Add IPA OTP schema and ACLs
-  ipa-kdb: Add OTP support
-  Add the krb5/FreeIPA RADIUS companion daemon
-  Remove unnecessary prefixes from ipa-pwd-extop files
-  Add OTP support to ipa-pwd-extop



Petr Spacek (1):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  ipa-client-install: Add 'debug' and 'show' statements to nsupdate
   commands



Petr Viktorin (1):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Remove leading zero from IPA_NUM_VERSION



Petr Vobornik (7):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Fix: HBAC Test tab is missing
-  Move spec modifications from facet factories to pre_ops
-  Unite and move facet pre_ops to related modules
-  Web UI: move ./_base/metadata_provider.js to ./metadata.js
-  Regression fix: missing control buttons in nested search facets
-  Make ssbrowser.html work in IE 10
-  Fix regression: missing facet tab group labels



Simo Sorce (2):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  CLDAP: Fix domain handling in netlogon requests
-  CLDAP: Return empty reply on non-fatal errors



Sumit Bose (1):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Fix format string typo



Tomas Babej (9):
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Remove redundancy from hbactest help text
-  Support multiple local domain ranges with RID base set
-  Do not allow removal of ID range of an active trust
-  Use private ccache in ipa install tools
-  Remove redundant check for env.interactive
-  Add prompt_param method to avoid code duplication
-  Incorporate interactive prompts in idrange-add
-  Do not check userPassword with 7-bit plugin
-  Manage ipa-otpd.socket by IPA
