FreeIPA 4.11.0
===================

.. raw:: mediawiki

   {{ReleaseDate|2023-10-02}}

The FreeIPA team would like to announce FreeIPA 4.11.0 release!

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads. Builds
for Fedora distributions will be available from the official repository
soon.

FreeIPA 4.11 series introduce support for FIDO2-based passkeys.

Traditional authentication with a password is not considered secure enough by
many companies or government agencies. Alternate and more secure solutions
exist, among which the use of passkeys, where the private key is stored on an
external device and the server only needs to know the public key.

For the purpose of this feature, passkey is a FIDO2 compatible device supported
by the libfido2 library. For more details, refer to https://fidoalliance.org/fido2/

The goal of this feature is to use a passkey to authenticate a user against IPA.
FIDO2-based passkeys support is jointly developed by SSSD and IPA:

    - IPA provides the interface to store the user’s public credentials
    - IPA provides the interface to configure passkey settings
    - SSSD performs the actual authentication

Support for passkeys expands FreeIPA passwordless experience. It is already
possible to authenticate FreeIPA users with other hardware-based and
passwordless authentication mechanisms such as

    - smartcards, using PKCS#11 tokens

    - two-factor authentication with HOTP or TOTP tokens

    - delegating authentication to an external OAuth2 identity provider (IdP) with
      OAuth2 device authorization flow

    - delegating authentication to an external RADIUS server

Initial implementation only supports physical FIDO2 devices and requires use of
SSSD 2.9.1 or later version, with passkeys support enabled. At the time of
FreeIPA 4.11.0 release this version is only available in developing versions of
Fedora (39/Rawhide), Debian (testing/sid), Ubuntu (Mantic) and several other
distributions.

Two major missing features in passwordless authentication integration in
FreeIPA currently are:

  - ability to use only passwordless authentication to enroll hosts to IPA

  - ability to login with passwordless authentication methods to FreeIPA Web UI
    without using Kerberos

We also expect a nicer integration with graphical environments to happen in future releases.

More details on passkeys integration can be found in the `FreeIPA design page <https://freeipa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/designs/passkeys.html>`__.

At Flock to Fedora 2023 conference we have also presented "Passwordless Fedora"
talk that shows our progress in this journey for the past decade:

  - `video of the talk <https://www.youtube.com/live/GkYURkrIzx0?feature=share&t=3226>`__

  - `presentation <https://static.sched.com/hosted_files/flock2023/5f/passwordless-fedora-flock.pdf>`__

.. _highlights_in_4.11.0:

Highlights in 4.11.0
--------------------

-  9354: Implement resource-based constrained delegation

      FreeIPA provides initial implementation of resource-based
      constrained delegation (RBCD) for Kerberos services. RBCD and
      other Kerberos delegation services described in the design
      document:
      https://freeipa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/designs/rbcd.html. The
      initial implementation works for FreeIPA services, work on
      supporting cross-realm RBCD continues.

--------------

-  9443: Context manager for ipalib.api to automatically configure, connect, and disconnect

      `ipalib.API` instances like `ipalib.api` now provide a context manager
      that connects and disconnects the API object. Users no longer have to
      deal with different types of backends or finalize the API correctly.
      
      import ipalib
      
      with ipalib.api as api:
          api.Commands.ping()

--------------

-  9289:  Configure server affinity during replica installation

--------------


-  9326:  Add support for passkey authentication type in kdb driver

--------------

- 9262:  Add "passkey" authentication type

--------------

- 9261:  Add CLI and WebUI to register a passkey for a user

--------------

- 9336:  Allow custom real name in IPA-EPN

--------------


Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

FreeIPA 4.11.0 is a stabilization release for the features delivered as
a part of 4.11 version series.

There are more than 10 bug-fixes since FreeIPA 4.11.0-beta release.
Details of the bug-fixes can be seen in the list of resolved tickets
below.

Upgrading
---------

Upgrade instructions are available on
`Upgrade <https://www.freeipa.org/page/Upgrade>`__ page.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-users
mailing list
(https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/freeipa-users@lists.fedorahosted.org/)
or #freeipa channel on libera.chat.

.. _resolved_tickets:

Resolved tickets
----------------

-  `#9289 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9289>`__
   (`rhbz#2149344 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2149344>`__)
   Configure server affinity during replica installation
-  `#9345 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9345>`__ Convert PKI API to
   use JSON instead of XML
-  `#9354 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9354>`__ Implement
   resource-based constrained delegation
-  `#9379 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9379>`__ Test failure in
   test_ipa_cert_fix.py::TestCertFixReplica::test_renew_expired_cert_replica
-  `#9428 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9428>`__ Failure in
   test_integration/test_acme.py::TestACMEPrune::test_prune_cert_manual
-  `#9433 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9433>`__
   (`rhbz#2234480 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2234480>`__)
   ipa user-mod --idp-user-id fails with: attribute "ipaIdpSub" not
   allowed
-  `#9434 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9434>`__ Support SELinux
   booleans in the client installer
-  `#9435 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9435>`__ BDB tuning should be
   applied only when BDB backend is used
-  `#9437 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9437>`__ ImportWarning:
   IpaMetaImporter.find_spec() not found; falling back to find_module()
-  `#9446 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9446>`__
   (`rhbz#2149344 <https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2149344>`__)
   Nightly test failure for replica installation with --setup-ca
-  `#9447 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9447>`__ Nightly test failure
   in test_sso.py
-  `#9431 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9431>`__  Covscan issues: 
   deadcode and Use after free
-  `#9443 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9443>`__   Context manager 
   for ipalib.api to automatically configure, connect, and disconnect

.. _detailed_changelog_since_4.11.0_beta:

Detailed changelog since 4.11.0-beta
------------------------------------

.. _alexander_bokovoy_4:

Alexander Bokovoy (4)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Allow ipa-otpd to access USB devices for passkeys
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/637ccae0b4b0ecd36756b4540c666724a73f4633>`__
   `#9434 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9434>`__
-  Restore selinux states if they exist at uninstall time
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/2220f72321dc6af8a7a94e1fad1c6980ee4cf522>`__
   `#9434 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9434>`__
-  ipa-client-install: enable SELinux for SSSD
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/d62be1da4542e91521b44595f2d41b557ba7a49e>`__
   `#9434 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9434>`__
-  updates: add ACIs for RBCD self-management
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/fc9b527dee2652c8056eb99080d9a050a7e648ff>`__
   `#9354 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9354>`__

.. _alexandra_nikandrova_1:

Alexandra Nikandrova (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  doc: typo in basic_usage.md
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/f7422b7812e6c2bed0a7ff7c4d93f64cd863810f>`__

.. _antonio_torres_2:

Antonio Torres (2)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  ipatests: rename 'ipatuura' directory to 'scim' in bridge tests
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/47463294097e01e08b0df3a51f3e2ccc9df9e309>`__
   `#9447 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9447>`__
-  Back to git snapshots
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/4b1c5a5a83e4e5d667218e1b1b32322e7a0e29de>`__

.. _christian_heimes_1:

Christian Heimes (2)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Use find_spec() in meta importer
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/bc9385d15cf7a975063754572eb65556a1df9c8a>`__
   `#9437 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9437>`__
-  Add context manager to ipalib.API
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/ed094e11ec59409c6cb361fa871e9b5e3da02172>`__
   `#9443 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9443>`__

.. _florence_blanc_renaud_1:

Florence Blanc-Renaud (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  idp: add the ipaidpuser objectclass when needed
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/f16b6e3e0a1f3dc507c3150c347276255f3b3e72>`__
   `#9433 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9433>`__

.. _francisco_trivino_1:

Francisco Trivino (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Workshop: fix broken Sphinx cross-references.
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/fd01b234e3c2e011a441750e8a44c9b293f8086a>`__

.. _mohammad_rizwan_2:

Mohammad Rizwan (2)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  ipatests: restart ipa services after moving date
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/9c10d7ee2c7a7f1f2c2643e19e3a3b8cf8a211be>`__
   `#9379 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9379>`__
-  ipatests: accommodate DST in ACME cert expiry
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/b13b8fbb472ec24dfe35a690147e43aea363f3e4>`__
   `#9428 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9428>`__

.. _rob_crittenden_4:

Rob Crittenden (5)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Don't assume KRB5CCNAME is in the environment in replica install
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/169f9abb6b9fdc11dc5d3e4ec8e6e9c3ef4dfd4f>`__
   `#9446 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9446>`__
-  Configure affinity during server installation
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/54a251bceaabfaf82d0a18b2614c261e2bded0c0>`__
   `#9289 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9289>`__
-  Adjust test to handle revocation reason REMOVE_FROM_CRL
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/37b433d4a79ae3f9160a27b6a03a58f371d2bd34>`__
   `#9345 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9345>`__
-  Use the PKI REST API wherever possible instead of XML
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/0b870694f62701534a32fdb4cbdd5c06a3ea4559>`__
   `#9345 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9345>`__
-  Covscan issues: deadcode and Use after free
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/cb14a30a1523305606d3bfbf7211cda1e197c9e9>`__
   `#9345 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9431>`__

.. _viktor_ashirov_1:

Viktor Ashirov (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  BDB tuning should be applied only when BDB backend is used
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/3f874eece90741cd3951578b15fd78fae9d50750>`__
   `#9435 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9435>`__
