IPAv2_220
=========

The FreeIPA team is proud to announce version FreeIPA v2.2.0.

It can be downloaded from
` <http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads>`__\ http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads.

A build is on the way to updates-testing for Fedora 17. Fedora 15 and 16
are not supported by FreeIPA 2.2.0 due to missing dependencies.

**Important**\ `note <Releases/DS_Issues_Note>`__\ **for Fedora 17
users**



Highlights in 2.2.0
-------------------

-  Forms-based login. If Kerberos Single-Sign-On authentication fails,
   you now have the option to authenticate through a form-base login
   page using your domain username and password. You an also go directly
   to the page named /ipa/ui/login.html to do form-based authentication
   without attempting a Kerberos login at all
-  Logout from the UI
-  Support for SSH known-hosts with sssd 1.8.0. This will create a
   known-hosts file dynamically based on information stored in IPA.
-  SELinux user maps to control a user's SELinux context depending on
   what host they log into (requires sssd 1.8.0+).
-  Support for global configuration of the name server stored in LDAP,
   including a list of global forwarders, forward policy, DNS zone
   refresh poll timeout.
-  Enhanced per-zone configuration, including query and transfer policy,
   and conditional forwarding.
-  DNS record CLI and Web UI is vastly improved, including an improved
   validation of supported DNS record types, an ability to create
   compound DNS records (like LOC or SRV) by its parts.
-  Migration improvements including being able to specify the basedn,
   translation of stored DN values. User-Private groups are no longer
   being created for migrated users.
-  We recommend that the compat plugin be disabled during migration to
   avoid unnecessary overhead.
-  On new installations the default users group, ipausers, is now
   non-POSIX to speed up user enumeration in SSSD. To make ipausers a
   POSIX group run ipa group-mod --posix ipausers.
-  The WebUI now has support for HBAC testing and Automember
   mananagement.

Upgrading
---------

An IPA server can be upgraded simply by installing updated rpms. The
server does not need to be shut down in advance.

If you have multiple servers you may upgrade them one at a time. It is
expected that all servers will be upgraded in a relatively short period
(days or weeks not months). They should be able to co-exist peacefully
but new features will not be available on old servers and enrolling a
new client against an old server will result in the SSH keys not being
uploaded.

Downgrading a server once upgraded is not supported.

Upgrading from 2.1.90 rc1 has not been tested.

An enrolled client does not need the new packages installed unless you
want to re-enroll it. SSH keys for already installed clients are not
uploaded, you will have to re-enroll the client or manually upload the
keys.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-devel
mailing list: http://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/freeipa-devel



Detailed Changelog since 2.1.90 rc 1
------------------------------------

Alexander Bokovoy (1):

-  When changing multiple booleans with setsebool, pass each of them
   separately.

Jan Cholasta (9):

-  Wait for child process to terminate after receiving SIGINT in
   ipautil.run.
-  Parse zone indices in IPv6 addresses in CheckedIPAddress.
-  Fix uses of O=REALM instead of the configured certificate subject
   base.
-  Fix the procedure for getting default values of command parameters.
-  Change parameters to use only default_from for dynamic default
   values.
-  Check whether the default user group is POSIX when adding new user
   with --noprivate.
-  Check configured maximum user login length on user rename.
-  Fix internal error when renaming user with an empty string.
-  Set the "KerberosAuthentication" option in sshd_config to "no"
   instead of "yes".

John Dennis (7):

-  Replace broken i18n shell test with Python test
-  improve handling of ds instances during uninstall
-  Use indexed format specifiers in i18n strings
-  text unit test should validate using installed mo file
-  Validate DN & RDN parameters for migrate command
-  don't append basedn to container if it is included
-  Fix name error in hbactest

Lars Sjostrom (1):

-  Add disovery domain if client domain is different from server domain

Martin Kosek (29):

-  Ignore case in yes/no prompts
-  Refresh resolvers after DNS install
-  Fix migration plugin compat check
-  Fix ipa-replica-manage TLS connection error
-  Treat UPGs correctly in winsync replication
-  Allow port numbers for idnsForwarders
-  Add missing global options in dnsconfig
-  Fix precallback validators in DNS plugin
-  Harden raw record processing in DNS plugin
-  Fix LDAP effective rights control with python-ldap 2.4.x
-  Avoid deleting DNS zone when a context is reused
-  Fix default SOA serial format
-  Amend permissions for new DNS attributes
-  Improve user awareness about dnsconfig
-  Fix dnsrecord-del interactive mode
-  Tolerate UDP port failures in conncheck
-  Improve automount indirect map error message
-  Forbid public access to DNS tree
-  Configure SELinux for httpd during upgrades
-  Fix installation when server hostname is not in a default domain
-  Return correct record name in DNS plugin
-  Fix dnsrecord_add interactive mode
-  Fix DNS and permissions unit tests
-  Raise proper exception when LDAP limits are exceeded
-  Do not fail migration because of duplicate groups
-  Fix help of --hostname option in ipa-client-install
-  Sort password policies properly with --pkey-only
-  Improve error message in zonemgr validator
-  Make ipa 2.2 client capable of joining an older server

Ondrej Hamada (7):

-  More exception handlers in ipa-client-install
-  Search allowed attributes in superior objectclasses
-  Typos in FreeIPA messages
-  Netgroup nisdomain and hosts validation
-  Confusing default user groups
-  Unable to rename permission object
-  Fix empty external member processing

Petr Viktorin (22):

-  Allow removing sudo commands with special characters from command
   groups
-  Enforce that required attributes can't be set to None in CRUD Update
-  Mark most config options as required
-  Don't crash when searching with empty relationship options
-  Remove ipausers' gidnumber from tests
-  Use nose tools to check for exceptions
-  Only split CSV in the client, quote instead of escaping
-  Add missing BuildRequires
-  Use valid argument names in tests
-  Add CLI parsing tests
-  Allow multi-line CSV parameters
-  Move test skipping to class setup
-  Fix little test errors
-  Test the batch plugin
-  Defer conversion and validation until after --{add,del,set}attr are
   handled
-  Limit permission and selfservice names to alphanumerics, -, \_, space
-  Convert --setattr values for attributes marked no_update
-  Fix expected error messages in tests
-  Remove pattern_errmsg from API.txt
-  Pass make-test arguments through to Nose
-  Document the 'nonempty' flag
-  Additional tests for pwpolicy

Petr Vobornik (22):

-  Fixed mask validation in network_validator
-  Fixed checkbox value in table without pkey
-  Certificate serial number in hex format - ui testing data
-  Fixed evaluating checkbox dirty status
-  Better hbactest validation message
-  Content is no more overwritten by error message
-  Show_content on refresh success
-  Fixed rpm build warning - extension.js listed twice
-  Add support of new options in dnsconfig
-  DNS forwarder validator
-  Added mac address to host page
-  Facet expiration flag
-  Inter-facet expiration
-  Reworked netgroup Web UI to allow setting user/host category
-  Fixed: permission attrs table didn't update its available options on
   load
-  Added attrs field to permission for target=subtree
-  DNS forward policy: checkboxes changed to radio buttons
-  Removed mutex option from checkboxes
-  Removal of memberofindirect_permissons from privileges
-  User is notified that password needs to be reset in forms-based login
-  Added permission field to delegation
-  Paging disable for password policies

Rob Crittenden (34):

-  Fix NSS no_init in the NSSHTTPS class
-  Set minimum version of selinux-policy to pick up memcached fix
-  Fix nsslapd-anonlimitsdn dn in cn=config
-  Set SELinux boolean httpd_manage_ipa so ipa_memcached will work.
-  Don't set dbdir in the connection until after the connection is
   created.
-  Display serial number as HEX (DECIMAL) when showing certificates.
-  Add subject key identifier to the dogtag server cert profile.
-  Configure a basic ldap.conf for OpenLDAP in /etc/openldap/ldap.conf
-  Import the ipaserver plugins based on context, not env.in_server.
-  Don't allow hosts and services of IPA masters to be disabled.
-  Use a consistent parameter name in errors, defaulting to cli_name.
-  No longer shell escape the DM password when calling pkisilent.
-  Fix test failure testing rename with an invalid hostname.
-  Fix attributes that contain DNs when migrating.
-  Normalize the primary key value to lowercase during migration.
-  Fix unit tests to work with new comma-support, validation
   requirements
-  Set minimum version of 389-ds-base to 1.2.10.4-2 to fix upgrade issue
-  Set nsslapd-minssf-exclude-rootdse to on so the DSE is always
   available.
-  Add requires on python-krbV to client subpackage
-  Fix failure count interval attribute name in query for password
   policy.
-  Handle updating replication agreements that lack
   nsDS5ReplicatedAttributeList
-  Don't create private groups for migrated users, check for valid
   gidnumber
-  Add updated Output format for batch to API.txt
-  Make revocation_reason required when revoking a certificate.
-  Add missing comma to list of services that cannot be disabled.
-  Return consistent value when hostcat and usercat is all.
-  Dereference pointer when comparing password history in qsort compare.
-  Configure certmonger to execute restart scripts on renewal.
-  Remove the running state when uninstalling DS instances.
-  Return consistent expiration message for forms-based login
-  Use mixed-case for Read DNS Entries permission
-  Update docs for user-status, always show disabled, time for each
   server.

Simo Sorce (1):

-  Fix memleak and silence Coverity defects