The FreeIPA team would like to announce FreeIPA v4.1.4 security release!

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads. The
builds will be available for Fedora 21. Builds for Fedora 20 are
available in the official `COPR
repository <https://copr.fedoraproject.org/coprs/mkosek/freeipa/>`__.



Highlights in 4.1.4
-------------------



Security fixes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  **CVE-2015-1827** It was discovered that the IPA extdom Directory
   Server plug-in did not correctly perform memory reallocation when
   handling user account information. A request for a list of groups for
   a user that belongs to a large number of groups would cause a
   Directory Server to crash.
-  **CVE-2015-0283** Additionally, FreeIPA 4.1.4 requires use of
   slapi-nis 0.54.2 which includes number of fixes for the
   CVE-2015-0283:

..

   It was discovered that the slapi-nis Directory Server plug-in did not
   correctly perform memory reallocation when handling user account
   information. A request for information about a group with many
   members, or a request for a user that belongs to a large number of
   groups, would cause a Directory Server to enter an infinite loop and
   consume an excessive amount of CPU time.

These issues were discovered by Sumit Bose of Red Hat.

Enhancements
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Various documentation improvements by Gabe Alford



Bug fixes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Various fixes to DNSSEC support and overall DNS deployment scripts
-  Improvements in handling CA certificates from previous deployments
   when installing FreeIPA clients
-  Licensing of FreeIPA is clarified with regards to OpenSSL integration
-  More robust configuration of slapi-nis plugin to prevent potential
   dead-locks with other operations requiring lower-level database
   access.

Upgrading
---------

Upgrade instructions are available on `Upgrade <Upgrade>`__ page.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-users
mailing list (http://www.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/freeipa-users) or
#freeipa channel on Freenode.



Detailed Changelog since 4.1.3
------------------------------



Alexander Bokovoy (2)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  fix Makefile.am for daemons
-  slapi-nis: require 0.54.2 for CVE-2015-0283 fixes



David Kupka (2)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Use IPA CA certificate when available and ignore NO_TLS_LDAP when
   not.
-  Restore default.conf and use it to build API.



Gabe Alford (3)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  ipa-replica-prepare should document ipv6 options
-  ipatests: Add tests for valid and invalid ipa-advise
-  ipa-replica-prepare can only be created on the first master



Jan Cholasta (4)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  certstore: Make certificate retrieval more robust
-  client-install: Do not crash on invalid CA certificate in LDAP
-  client: Fix ca_is_enabled calls
-  upload_cacrt: Fix empty cACertificate in cn=CAcert



Martin Babinsky (3)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  ipa-dns-install: use STARTTLS to connect to DS
-  migrate-ds: print out failed attempts when no users/groups are
   migrated
-  show the exception message thrown by dogtag._parse_ca_status during
   install



Martin Bašti (7)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  DNSSEC add support for CKM_RSA_PKCS_OAEP mechanism
-  Fix memory leaks in ipap11helper
-  Remove unused method from ipap11pkcs helper module
-  DNS fix: do not traceback if unsupported records are in LDAP
-  DNS fix: do not show part options for unsupported records
-  DNS: remove NSEC3PARAM from records
-  Fix dead code in ipap11helper module



Martin Košek (1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Remove references to GPL v2.0 license



Nathan Kinder (1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Timeout when performing time sync during client install



Petr Voborník (2)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  ipatests: add missing ssh object classes to idoverrideuser
-  Become IPA 4.1.4



Petr Špaček (3)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  p11helper: standardize indentation and other visual aspects of the
   code
-  p11helper: use sizeof() instead of magic constants
-  p11helper: clarify error message



Simo Sorce (2)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Add a clear OpenSSL exception.
-  Stop including the DES algorythm from openssl.



Sumit Bose (7)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  ipa-range-check: do not treat missing objects as error
-  Add configure check for cwrap libraries
-  extdom: handle ERANGE return code for getXXYYY_r() calls
-  extdom: make nss buffer configurable
-  extdom: return LDAP_NO_SUCH_OBJECT to the client
-  extdom: fix memory leak
-  extdom: fix wrong realloc size



Tomáš Babej (3)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  ipatests: Add coverage for adding and removing sshpubkeys in ID
   overrides
-  ipalib: Make sure correct attribute name is referenced for fax
-  idviews: Use case-insensitive detection of Default Trust View



Thierry Bordaz (1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Limit deadlocks between DS plugin DNA and slapi-nis
