The FreeIPA team would like to announce FreeIPA 4.8.8 release!

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads. Builds
for Fedora distributions will be available from the official repository
soon.



Highlights in 4.8.8
-------------------

-  CVE-2020-10747

It was found that if an account with a name corresponding to an account
local to a system, such as 'root', was created via IPA, such account
could access any enrolled machine with that identitity and the local
system privileges. This also bypass the absence of explicit HBAC rules.

Since the account can only be created by user administrators in FreeIPA,
several changes were done to tighten permissions and prevent creation of
'root' identity by mistake.



root principal alias
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The principal "root@REALM" is now a Kerberos principal alias for
"admin". This prevent user with "User Administrator" role or "System:
Add User" privilege to create an account with "root" principal name.



Modified user permissions
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Several user permissions no longer apply to admin users and filter on
posixAccount object class. This prevents user managers from modifying
admin acounts:

-  System: Manage User Certificates
-  System: Manage User Principals
-  System: Manage User SSH Public Keys
-  System: Modify Users
-  System: Remove Users
-  System: Unlock user

**System: Unlock User** permission is now restricted because the
permission also allows a user manager to lock an admin account.

**System: Modify Users** is restricted to prevent user managers from
changing login shell or notification channels (mail, mobile) of admin
accounts.



New user permission
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  System: Change Admin User password

This new permission allows manipulation of admin user password fields.
By default only the **PassSync Service** privilege is allowed to modify
admin user password fields.



Modified group permissions
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Group permissions are now restricted as well. Group admins can no longer
modify the admins group and are limited to groups with object class
**ipausergroup**.

-  System: Modify Groups
-  System: Remove Groups

The permission **System: Modify Group Membership** was already limited.

Upgrading
---------

Upgrade instructions are available on `Upgrade <Upgrade>`__ page.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-users
mailing list
(https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/freeipa-users@lists.fedorahosted.org/)
or #freeipa channel on Freenode.



Resolved tickets
----------------

-  `#8326 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8326>`__ CVE-2020-10747



Detailed changelog since 4.8.7
------------------------------



Alexander Bokovoy (1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Become FreeIPA 4.8.8
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/86ab7590779b9e25c6a52cf5a785925103d9ee8a>`__



Christian Heimes (1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-  Prevent local account takeover
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/65c2736bd20ffb9d98769e71d905f71d1a4d857e>`__
   `#8326 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8326>`__
