Coding_Style
============

Introduction
============

This manual contains coding standards and guidelines for freeIPA
contributors. It is based heavily on the `389 Directory Server style
guide <http://directory.fedoraproject.org/wiki?title=Coding_Style>`__
but deviates from it and covers more aspects. It is modified and
extended based on the discussion that was conducted on the freeipa-devel
list in early November 2008.

All new code should adhere to these standards but please do not go back
and make wholesale formatting changes to the old code. It just confuses
things and is generally a waste of time.



Why Coding Guidelines?
======================

The Coding Guidelines are necessary to improve maintainability and
readability of the code.

Maintainability
---------------

If you're merging changes from a patch it's much easier if everyone is
using the same coding style. This isn't the reality for a lot of our
code, but we're trying to get to the point where most of it uses the
same style.

Readability
-----------

Remember, code isn't just for compilers, it's for people, too. If it
wasn't for people, we would all be programming in assembly. Coding style
and consistency mean that if you go from one part of the code to another
you don't spend time having to re-adjust from one style to another.
Blocks are consistent and readable and the flow of the code is apparent.
Coding style adds value for people who have to read your code after
you've been hit by a bus. Remember that.

Definitions
===========

The following guidelines apply to developing code in the freeIPA
project. Some rules are mandatory some rules are just suggestions or
recommendations. We will use following terminology to identify whether
this or that rule is mandatory or not.

-  MUST – everybody must follow the rule
-  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED – the rule should be followed unless there are
   some serious reasons why they should not be followed.
-  RECOMMENDED – it is a best practice to use this rule. It is not
   required but strongly encouraged.
-  DISCRETION – follow this at developer discretion.

Rules
=====



General Rules
-------------

MUST: All source and header files must include a copy of the license.
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Stick to a K&R coding style for C. HIGHLY
RECOMMENDED: Curly braces on same line as if/while. MUST: All code
should be peer reviewed before being checked in unless it is a one line
trivial change. MUST: If you are fixing a bug, attach the patch to the
bug report. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Much of IPA uses Python so we have an
enforced style in many cases already but consistency is important.



Spaces and Indentation
----------------------

MUST: No tabs all indentation 4 spaces. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: When
wrapping lines, try to break it:

:\* after a comma

:\* before an operator

:\* align the new line with the beginnigng of the expression at the same
level in the previous line

:\* if all else fails, just indent 8 spaces.



Length of Line
--------------

MUST: Do not make lines longer than 120 characters. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED:
Keep lines within 80 character boundary for better readability.

Comments
--------

MUST: Use only C style comments /\* \*/ not C++. MUST: When commenting
use the following styles:
::

     /*
      * VERY important single-line comments look like this.
      */

  ``   /* Most single-line comments look like this. */``

     /*
      * Multi-line comments look like this. Make them real sentences. Fill
      * them so they look like real paragraphs.
      */

Avoid:

::

     /* Multiline comments
        that look like this */

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Avoid useless comments that do not add value to the
code.

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Each function should be preceded with a block
comment describing what the function is supposed to do.

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Block comments should be preceded by a blank line to
set it apart. Line up the \* characters in the block comment.

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Python comments can use either the # or """ form

IFDEF
-----

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: When using #ifdefs, it's nice to add comments in the
pairing #endif:

::

    #ifndef _HEADER_H_
    #define _HEADER_H_
    
    /* something here */
    
    #endif /* !_HEADER_H_ */

or:

::

    #ifdef HAVE_PTHREADS
    
    /* some code here */
    
    #else /* !HAVE_PTHREADS */
    
    /* some other code here */
    
    #endif /* HAVE_PTHREADS */



Include Files
-------------

RECOMMENDED: Includes should be grouped properly. Standard headers and
local headers should definitely be separated by a blank line. Other
logical grouping should be reasonably done if needed. Files inside the
groups should be sorted alphabetically, unless a specific order is
required - this however is very rare, and must not happen. Also, one
shouldn't depend on the fact that one header file includes other one,
unless it is really obvious and/or desirable, like in cases when one
header file practically "enhances" the other one, for example with more
error codes, etc.

Macros
------

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Macros that are unsafe should be in upper-case. This
also applies to macros that span multiple lines:

::

    #define MY_MACRO(a, b) do {   \
                 foo((a) + (b));  \
                 bar(a);          \
    } while (0)

Notice that arguments should be in parentheses if there's a risk. Also
notice that a is referenced two times, and hence the macro is dangerous.
Wrapping the body in do { } while (0) makes it safe to use it like this:

::
    if (expr)
        MY_MACRO(x, y);

Notice the semicolon is used after the invocation, not in the macro definition.
Otherwise, if a macro is safe (for example a simple wrapping function), then the case can be lower-case.

Variables
---------

Naming
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Use low case multi word underscore separated
notation for naming variables. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Make name meaningful.
MUST: Never use Hungarian notation when naming variables.

Declaring
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RECOMMENDED: One declaration per line is preferred.

::

     int foo;
     int bar;

instead of

::

  ``  int foo, bar;``

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Initialize at declaration time when possible.

RECOMMENDED: Avoid complex variable initializations (like calling
functions) when declaring variables like:

::

  ``  int foobar = get_foobar(baz);``

but split it in:
::

    int foobar;
    
    foobar = get_foobar(baz);
    ...

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Always declare all variables at the top of the
function, normally try to avoid declaring local variables in internal
loops.

RECOMMENDED: Don't initialize static or global variables to 0 or NULL.



Use of Typedefs
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Avoid using typedefs. Typedefs obscure structures
and make it harder to understand and debug.



Declaring Structures
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DISCRETION: When defining structure or union try make it easy to read.
You may use some form of alignment if you see that this might make it
more readable.



Global Variables
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Avoid using global variables. They make for very
poor code. Should be used only if no other way can be found. They tend
to be not thread/async safe

Functions
---------



External Function Declarations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Avoid situations where you have to explicitly list
out external function. The header files should in general take care of
the external function declaration. If this is not the case it is subject
for review of the header file hierarchy.



Declaring Module Functions
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DISCRETION: It up to the developer to define the order of the functions
in the module and thus declare functions at the top or use a native flow
of the module and avoid forward function declarations.



Order of the Functions
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DISCRETION: It is up to the developer which approach to use: whether to
write the main function at the top of the module and then all the
supporting functions or start with supporting functions and have the
main one at the bottom. Both approaches are acceptable. One can use
additional comments to help identify how the module is structured.



Naming Functions
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MUST: For function names use multi word underscore separate naming
convention like this monitor_task_init(struct task_server \*task); MUST:
Never use Hungarian notation when naming functions.



Indenting Functions
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DISCRETION: It is up to the developer which pattern to use when
indenting the function parameters if function has long name and has to
be split between multiple lines. The pattern however MUST be consistent
across the module so if you are fixing somebodies code continue with the
pattern used in the module.



Function Declaration
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

DISCRETION: It is up to the developer whether to put the return type of
the function and modifiers (static for example) in front of the function
on the same line or start the line with the an actual function name. In
any case the pattern MUST be consistent across the module. If you are
adding function to an already existing module follow its pattern. MUST:
Put opening “{“ of the function body on the beginning of the new line
after the function declaration. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Do not put spaces
before or after parenthesis in the declaration of the parameters. For
example:

::

    OK:  int foo(int bar, int baz);
    NOT OK: bad ( arg1 , arg2 );



Function Parameters
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RECOMMENDED: Try to always put "input" arguments before "output"
arguments, if you have arguments that provide both input an output put
them between the pure-input and the pure-output ones.


::

    OK: foo(int in1, void *in2, char **ou1);
    NOT OK: voo(char **ou1, int in1);



Use of Const
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RECOMMENDED: If appropriate, always use the const modifier for pointers
passed to the function. This makes the intentions of the function more
clearer, plus allows the compiler to catch more bugs and make some
optimizations.



Tools to Use
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RECOMMENDED: Creating lists and queues was already done a lot of times.
When possible, use some common functions for manipulating these to avoid
mistakes.



Conditions and Statements
-------------------------

Condition
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RECOMMENDED: Use the full condition syntax like (NULL == str) rather
than (!str).



IF Statements
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: If-else statements should have the following form:

::

      if (condition``*\ ``) { 
         /* do some work */
     }

      if (condition``*\ ``) { 
         /* do some work */
     } else {
         /* do some other work */
     }

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Balance the braces in the if and else in an if-else
statement if either has only one line:

::

     if (condition) {
         /*
          * stuff that takes up more than one
          * line
          */
     } else {
         /* stuff that only uses one line */
     }

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: The corollary is also true; don't use braces if
there's only one line for both:

::

     if (foo)
         bar();
     else
         baz();

Allowed approach is to use braces if there is only one line:

::

     if (foo) {
         bar();
     } else {
         baz();
     }

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Avoid last-return-in-else problem. Code should look
like this:

::

     int foo(int bar)
     {
         if (something) {
             /* stuff done here */
             return 1;            
         }
     
         return 0;
     }

**NOT** like this:

::

     int foo(int bar)
     {
         if (something) {
             /* stuff done here */
             return 1;            
         } else {
             return 0;
         }
     }

Loops
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: For, while and until statements should take a
similar form:

::

      for (initialization;condition;update``*\ ``) { 
         /* iterate here */
     }

      while (condition``*\ ``) { 
         /* do some work */
     }

Switch
^^^^^^

HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: Use the following style for the switch statements

::

    switch (var) {
    case 0:
        break;
    case 1:
        printf("meh.\n");
        /* FALLTHROUGH */
    case 2:
        printf("2\n");
        break;
    default:
        /* Always have default */
        break;
    }

Strings
-------



Internationalized (i18n) Strings
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If the string will be internationalized (e.g. is marked with \_()) and
it has more than one format substitution you
**MUST\ \ use\ index\ format specifiers, not positional format
specifiers. Translators need the option to reorder where substitutions
appear in a string because the ordering of nouns, verbs, phrases, etc.
differ between languages. If conventional positional format conversion
specifiers (e.g. %s %d) are used the string cannot be reordered because
the ordering of the format specifiers must match the ordering of the
printf arguments supplying the substitutions. The fix for this is easy,
use indexed format specifiers. An indexed specifier includes an (1
based) index to the % character that introduces the format specifier
(e.g. %1$ to indicate the first argument). That index is used to select
the matching argument from the argument list. When indexed specifiers
are used\ all\ format specifiers and\ all\ \* width fields\ \ MUST** use
indexed specifiers.

Here is an example of incorrect usage with positional specifiers:

`` printf(_("item %s has %s value"), name, value);``

Here is the correct usage using indexed specifiers:

`` printf(_("item %1$s has %2$s value"), name, value);``

See man 3 printf as well as section 15.3.1 "C Format Strings" in the GNU
gettext manual for more details.

`Category:Developer documentation <Category:Developer_documentation>`__
`Category:Help for developers <Category:Help_for_developers>`__
`Category:How to <Category:How_to>`__