FreeIPA 4.12.4
==============

.. raw:: mediawiki

   {{ReleaseDate|2025-06-17}}

The FreeIPA team would like to announce FreeIPA 4.12.4 release!

It can be downloaded from http://www.freeipa.org/page/Downloads. Builds
for Fedora distributions will be available from the official repository
soon.

.. _highlights_in_versions:

Highlights in 4.12.4
-------------------------

-  CVE-2025-4404

In 2020 the FreeIPA team implemented an enforcement to prevent a local
account takeover on IPA-enrolled clients by aliasing the 'root' account
to the 'admin' Kerberos principal so that only administrators can
request a Kerberos ticket for the 'root' alias. This type of attack was
later discovered in Active Directory as well by Samba Team and dubbed
'Dollar ticket attack'
(https://wiki.samba.org/index.php/Security/Dollar_Ticket_Attack).

The FreeIPA Kerberos implementation enforces uniqueness across Kerberos
principals to ensure that a canonical Kerberos principal name and its
aliases cannot be assigned twice to different accounts. Newly created
user accounts, host machine accounts, and Kerberos service accounts will
always have the canonical Kerberos principal name also set as an alias
for the same account.

However, as a part of the change in
https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/8326, there was no additional
enforcement of the canonical Kerberos principal name for a pre-defined
'admin' account. This allowed another authenticated Kerberos principal
with privileges to add Kerberos principal aliases to create a canonical
name for a controlled service that matched the 'admin' account. With
additional Kerberos client-side manipulation it became possible to trick
a service application into accepting such a ticket as an 'admin'.

It is not possible to escalate this attack through IPA API due to
certain Kerberos protocol extensions enforcement in IPA API endpoint.
However, there is a possibility to trick an IPA LDAP server into it
directly once a broken configuration was introduced into the IPA
deployment.

The fix for CVE-2025-4404 is to enforce the 'admin' account's canonical
Kerberos principal name. Additionally, an upgrade code looks at possible
compromised Kerberos entries and removes 'admin' account aliases from
those entries.

We would like to express our gratitude to Mikhail Sukhov (Positive
Technologies) for discovering this vulnerability and reporting it to Red
Hat Product Security team and the FreeIPA project.

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _known_issues:

Known Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. _bug_fixes:

Bug fixes
~~~~~~~~~

FreeIPA 4.12.4 is a security fix release.

Details of the bug-fixes can be seen in the list of resolved tickets
below.

Upgrading
---------

Upgrade instructions are available on
`Upgrade <https://www.freeipa.org/page/Upgrade>`__ page.

Feedback
--------

Please provide comments, bugs and other feedback via the freeipa-users
mailing list
(https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/freeipa-users@lists.fedorahosted.org/)
or #freeipa channel on libera.chat.

Resolved tickets
----------------

-  `#9777 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9777>`__ kdb:
   ipadb_get_connection() succeeds but returns null LDAP context

.. _detailed_changelog_since_4.12.3:

Detailed changelog since 4.12.3
-------------------------------

.. _antonio_torres_1:

Antonio Torres (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Become IPA 4.12.4
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/f2fc367fb00193a8ca8a1f22786fccd6b0024dac>`__

.. _julien_rische_1:

Julien Rische (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  kdb: keep ipadb_get_connection() from succeeding with null LDAP
   context
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/6ae52a2fb451bbe57a4f0c584e14bca0274b85e8>`__
   `#9777 <https://pagure.io/freeipa/issue/9777>`__

.. _rob_crittenden_1:

Rob Crittenden (1)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Set krbCanonicalName=admin@REALM on the admin user
   `commit <https://pagure.io/freeipa/c/e8c410ae5f7cdd36fecba66713ca94bd47465122>`__
